feat(blog): post about tab completion (#145)
someengineering/resoto.com: blog/2022/05_02-resotoshell-tab-completion/index.md

## Support for search syntax

Resoto comes with a powerful [search syntax](/docs/concepts/search) that allows for many use cases. Everybody wants to use a powerful search capability - nobody wants to learn a new search syntax. Our approach to bridge this gap is also to provide typing support for the search syntax.

![Search in action](img/search.gif)

This guidance helps you with the general search syntax. Resources can be filtered by a specific kind via `is(<kind>)`. The list of possible kinds is available. The completion uses fuzzy search, so you can start in the middle of a word or just type the first letters. Example: `v_t<TAB>` will be completed to `volume_type`.

Filter expressions use the syntax `<field> <operator> <value>`. The list of all possible fields is available as well as all available operators. Ideally the completer would only show properties, that are relevant for the selected kind. It is currently not smart enough and shows always all possible properties - something we want to improve in the future.

A sort criteria also uses a property to sort - so the completer shows all available properties, as well as the possible sort order `asc` or `desc`.

> 

Author: You are rigorous ;)

The fuzzy search is something not very obvious and also not written anywhere else.
Also I am not sure, if a little explanation of something you can see is better?
I leave it open for the moment - let's discuss.

> 

Reviewer: Hm yeah, that is true. I think you're right... I'll submit some edits/changes to what you have here.

> This guidance helps you with the general search syntax. Resources can be filtered by a specific kind via `is(<kind>)`. The list of possible kinds is available. The completion uses fuzzy search, so you can start in the middle of a word or just type the first letters. Example: `v_t<TAB>` will be completed to `volume_type`.
> 
> Filter expressions use the syntax `<field> <operator> <value>`. The list of all possible fields is available as well as all available operators. Ideally the completer would only show properties, that are relevant for the selected kind. It is currently not smart enough and shows always all possible properties - something we want to improve in the future.
> 
> A sort criteria also uses a property to sort - so the completer shows all available properties, as well as the possible sort order `asc` or `desc`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Resources can be filtered by kind using `is(<kind>)`](/docs/concepts/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-kind) and the automated assistance uses fuzzy search, allowing you to simply type a portion of the desired text or even just the first letters. For example, `v_t` will yield the suggestion `volume_type`.

[Filter expressions use the syntax `<field> <operator> <value>`](/docs/concepts/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-predicate), and possible fields and operators are presented as suggestions as well. The autocomplete feature ideally would only list properties that are relevant for the selected kind, but it is currently shows always all possible properties—we plan to address this in the future.
```

> 

Reviewer: (Sorry for the delay!)

> 

Author: Thanks!

## Support for aggregations

> Not only search but also [aggregate](/docs/reference/cli/aggregate) uses special syntax to define aggregation expressions. An aggregation is always computed on the result of a search and defines a list of grouping variables, as well as a list of aggregation functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`aggregate` command](/docs/reference/cli/aggregate) also uses special syntax to define aggregation expressions, and tab completion again can help:
```

![Aggregate in action](img/aggregate.gif)

> The completer helps in defining the grouping variables, by providing the list of all possible properties. Please also note the special support to define [`/ancestors`](/docs/concepts/search/merging-nodes#ancestors-and-descendants) grouping variables, which requires to define the kind of the ancestor as well as the property to group by.
> 
> It also knows about the possible aggregation functions and provides it as a list. Since every grouping variable and every aggregation function can be renamed, an optional `as` clause is suggested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, the autocomplete feature lists possible properties. There is also support for defining [`/ancestors` grouping variables](/docs/concepts/search/merging-nodes#ancestors-and-descendants).

As mentioned previously, [Resoto Shell](/docs/concepts/components/shell) is context-aware and will supply a list of possible aggregation functions. And since every grouping variable and every aggregation function can be renamed, the optional `as` clause is suggested as well.
```

> With the support of this feature, it is hopefully much simpler to use the CLI. Please find our [Getting Started Guide](/docs/getting-started) and give Resoto a spin!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope that the new tab completion feature makes Resoto's [command-line interface](/docs/reference/cli) easier to use!
```

Author: Shouldn't we have a CTA at the end?
